Numismatic evidence reveals the existence of independent rulers of Panchala during the post-Mauryan period. Most of the coins issued by them are found at Ahichatra and adjoining areas. All the coins are round, made of a copper alloy and have a set pattern on the obverse-a deeply incised square punch consisting of a row of three symbols and the ruler's name placed in a single line below them. The reverse bears depictions of the deities or sometimes of their attributes, whose names form a component of the issuers' names (for example, coins of Agnimitra bear the depiction of Agni). The names of the rulers found on these coins are Vangapala, Yajnapala, Damagupta, Rudragupta, Jayagupta, Suryamitra, Phalgunimitra, Bhanumitra, Bhumimitra, Dhruvamitra, Agnimitra, Indramitra, Vishnumitra, Jayamitra, Prajapatimitra, Varunamitra, Anamitra, Bhadraghosha and Yugasena (the reverse of the coins of Varunamitra, Yugasena and Anamitra do not exhibit any deity). Shaunakayaniputra Vangapala, ruler of Ahichatra, whom Vaidehiputra Ashadhasena mentioned as his grandfather in his Pabhosa inscription, is identified with king Vangapala, known from his coins. The name of Damagupta is also found on a clay sealing.[26][27]

The last independent ruler of Ahichatra was Achyuta, who was defeated by Samudragupta, after which Panchala was annexed into the Gupta Empire.[28] The coins of Achyuta found from Ahichatra have a wheel of eight spokes on the reverse and the legend Achyu on the obverse.[29]

Gallery
Panchala coinage
Coin of the Panchalas of Ahichhatra (75-50 BCE). Obv Indra seated facing on pedestal, holding bifurcated object. Rev Idramitrasa in Brahmi, Panchala symbols.
Coin of the Panchalas of Ahichhatra (75-50 BCE).
Obv Indra seated facing on pedestal, holding bifurcated object.
Rev Idramitrasa in Brahmi, Panchala symbols.
 
Coin of Agnimitra, showing the depiction of Agni with flaming hair on the obverse, and a reverse showing the three dynastic symbols of the Panchala rulers and a legend naming the king: Agimitasa.
Coin of Agnimitra, showing the depiction of Agni with flaming hair on the obverse, and a reverse showing the three dynastic symbols of the Panchala rulers and a legend naming the king: Agimitasa.
 
A bronze currency of 1⁄2 karshapana of King Indramitra (ca 75-50 BC?) Of Ahichatra of Panchala. Obv: A inside a rectangle, a line of 3 symbols, under the name of the king. Rev: Indra standing on a pedestal without pillars. Dimensions: 15 mm. Weight: 4.18 g.
A bronze currency of 1⁄2 karshapana of King Indramitra (ca 75-50 BC?) Of Ahichatra of Panchala. Obv: A inside a rectangle, a line of 3 symbols, under the name of the king. Rev: Indra standing on a pedestal without pillars. Dimensions: 15 mm. Weight: 4.18 g.
 
Coin of Achyuta, the last Panchala king, showing an 8-spoked wheel and the king's name: Achyu.
Coin of Achyuta, the last Panchala king, showing an 8-spoked wheel and the king's name: Achyu.
Rulers
Ajamida II had a son named Rishin. Rishin had two sons namely Samvarana II whose son was Kuru and Brihadvasu whose descendants were Panchalas.[30][31][32][33]

List of Panchala Kingdom rulers are-
Rishin, (his sons were Brihadvasu and Samvarana II)
Brihadbhanu, (son of Brihadvasu)
Brihatkaya
Puranjaya
Riksha
Bramhyaswa
Aramyaswa
Mudgala, Yavinara, Pratiswan, Kampilya (Founder of Kampilya - Capital of Panchala Kingdom) and Sranjaya were the sons of Aramyaswa and were the founders of Panchala Kingdom and were called as Panchalas.
Dritimana, (son of Mudgala)
Drdhanemi
Sarvasena, (founder of Ujjain Kingdom)
Mitra
Rukmaratha
Suparswa
Sumathi
Sannatimana
Krta
Pijavana
Somadutta
Jantuvahana
Badhrayaswa
Brihadhishu
Brihadhanu
Brihadkarma
Jayaratha
Visvajit
Seinyajit
Nepavirya, (after this King's name the country was named Nepaldesh)
Samara
Sadashva
Ruchiraswa
Pruthusena
Prapti
Prthaswa
Sukrthi
Vibhiraja
Anuha
Bramhadatta II
Vishwaksena
Dandasena
Durmukha
Durbuddhi
Dharbhya
Divodasa
Sivana I
Mitrayu
Maitrayana
Soma
Sivana II
Sadasana
Sahadeva
Somaka, (Somaka's eldest son was Sugandakrthu and youngest was Prishata. But in a war all sons died and Prishata Survived and became the king of Panchala)
Prishati, (son of Somaka)
Drupada, (son of Prishata)
Dhrishtadyumna, (was the son of Drupada, Draupadi and Shikhandi were the daughters of Drupada)
Keśin Dālbhya
Pravahana Jaivali
Achyuta, (last known ruler of Panchala Kingdom which was defeated in c. 350 CE by Gupta ruler Samudragupta.)
See also
History of South Asia
South Asia (orthographic projection)
Outline
National histories
Regional histories
Specialised histories
vte
Vedic period
Mahabharata
History of India
History of Hinduism
Indus Valley civilization
Painted Grey Ware culture
Janapadas & Mahajanapadas
Historicity of the Mahabharata
Kuru Kingdom & Gandhara Kingdom